---
title: "Windows 11 Overview"
date: 2022-01-07 18:42:56 -04:00
categories:
    - Technology
tags:
    - Windows
    - WSL
---

## Background
As Someone who loves the customizability of Linux but the software/hardware support of Windows I was very interested to see what the OS Microsoft said we would never get has to offer. In this post I will be going over What stood out in Windows 11 for me.

## Installation
### The Good
The Installer is just as simple as it was all the way back when Microsoft released Windows 8, keeping an identical design. While it does leave a little to be desired from a more technical user it is reliable and easy to use, which above all else is the primary requirement for a great installer

### The Bad
From a security perspective I love the mandate of the TPM2.0 module but as someone who supports there family who use much older hardware it makes it at least a little more difficult to recommend Windows 11 to them, the only saving grace is that you can bypass the TPM Mandate when installing the operating system natively

## Setup
While Microsoft threw a new coat of paint on the Setup wizard functionally it is identical to the Windows 10 installer with the same default settings with the one exception being that if you don’t have a pro or higher license you have to set up the primary account on the device with a Microsoft account

## Day to Day Use
General Use
Once you move the start button to its rightful spot in the bottom left corner of the screen Windows 11 functions almost identically as Windows has all the way back to Windows 98. That being said under the hood there are some advantages such as better battery life, less bloat, and better hardware utilization. Additionally shot for shot Windows 11 appears to have launched with far fewer bugs then Windows 10 did.

## WSLG
In Windows 11 the WSL implementation is extraordinary it nearly bridges the gap between Windows and Linux. With the implementation of the graphics subsystem you can now run nearly 100% of Workstation applications that would require a Linux desktop previously.

## In closing
I have been using Windows 11 since launch day and have been very satisfied with it . It simply gets out of my way and lets me get my work done, time will tell if that continues to be the case.